<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/MathML2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [					<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">				]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>No Title</title><style type="text/css">.center{text-align:center;}</style></head><body>
<p>506</p>
<p><i>SCIENCE</i></p>
<p>VOL. 84, No. 2188</p>
<p>center of the building connecting the main and second floors is being eliminated. New stairways are being constmcted on either side, leaving the central spaoe free for exhibits. The main entrance hall will have new cases for changing exhibits and at the back, opposite the front door, a group of herring <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">g</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">u</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">U</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">s</mi></math> and common tems on sand dunes at Plymouth harbor. The lecture room floor is being leveled so that the room can be used for children's work also. <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">A</mi></math> new room for study collections is provided in the base- ment. Exhibits are being rearranged by all the de- partments with the idea of appealing to the public <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">r</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">a</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">t</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">h</mi><mover accent="true"><mrow><mi mathvariant="normal">e</mi></mrow><mo mathvariant="normal">&DiacriticalDot;</mo></mover><mi mathvariant="normal">r</mi></math> than of adhering to the purely scientific point of view. Herpetological exhibits, for instance, will emphasize life histories and economic value of reptiles and amphibians; birds are grouped by habitat and status as residents. New labels to interest the visitor are being worked out. The museum is closed while alterations are being made. The date for the reopen- ing of the building has not yet been set, but it <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">w</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">m</mi></math> probably be early in the coming year.</p>
<p>A COLLECT<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mn mathvariant="normal">1</mn><mi mathvariant="normal">O</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">N</mi></math> of several hundred Californian plants which has all but encircled the earth is now being studied in the herbarium of the Califomia Academy of Sciences in San Francisco. The specimens were collected in 1840 and 1841 by the Russians in the re- gion then known as Russian California (""Califomia boreal. Ross.&ldquo; the labels read <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mo mathvariant="normal">&rang;</mo></math> and were sent from California to the herbarium of the Russian Academy in St. Petersburg by way of Vladivostok and across Siberia. These same specimens which have remained unnamed for nearly a hundred years are being deter- mined by J. T. Howell at the California Academy of Sciences after which they will be returned to the her- barium of the Academy of Sciences in Leningrad. The plants, which were collected in different parts of the Russian territory, were obtained by Vosnesensky (Wosnessensky&ldquo; <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mo mathvariant="normal">&rang;</mo></math>, who was in the first party to climb Mt. St. Helena in the Californian Coast Ranges north of San Francisco. Fort Ross, the chief Russian port and settlement on the Califomian coast, is about sixty miles north of San Francisco.</p>
<p>DISCUSSION</p>
<p>LENS-LIKE ACTION OF A STAR BY THE DEVIATION OF LIGHT IN THE</p>
<p>GRAVITATIONAL FIELD</p>
<p>SOME time ago, R. W. Mandl paid me a visit and asked me to publish the results of a little calculation, which I had made at his request. This note complies with his wish.</p>
<p>The light coming from a star <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">A</mi></math> traverses the gravi- tational field of another star <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math>, whose radius is <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi mathvariant="italic">R</mi><mrow><mn mathvariant="italic">0</mn></mrow></msub></math>. Let there be an observer at a distance <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi></math> from <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math> and at a distance <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi mathvariant="italic">x</mi><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">J</mi></mrow></msub></math> small compared with <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">J</mi></mrow></msub></math> from the ex- tended central line <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mover accent="true"><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">A</mi><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></mrow><mo mathvariant="normal">&macr;</mo></mover></math>. According to the general theory of relativity, let <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi mathvariant="italic">&alpha;</mi><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">o</mi></mrow></msub></math> be the deviation of the light ray passing the star <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math> at a distance <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi mathvariant="italic">R</mi><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">o</mi></mrow></msub></math> from its center. For the sake of simplicity, let us assume that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mover accent="true"><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">A</mi><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></mrow><mo mathvariant="normal">&macr;</mo></mover></math> is large, compared with the distance <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi></math> of the observer from the deviating star <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math>. We also neglect the eclipse (geometrical obscuration <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mo mathvariant="normal">&rang;</mo></math> by the star <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math>, which indeed is negligible in all practically important cases. To permit this, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi></math> has to be very large compared to the radius <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi mathvariant="italic">R</mi><mrow><mn mathvariant="italic">0</mn></mrow></msub></math> of the deviating star.</p>
<p>It follows from the law of deviation that an observer situated exactly on the extension of the central line <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mover accent="true"><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">A</mi><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></mrow><mo mathvariant="normal">&macr;</mo></mover></math> will perceive, instead of a point-like star <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">A</mi></math>, a luminius circle of the angular radius <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">&beta;</mi></math> around the center of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math>, where</p>
<p class="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">&beta;</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">=</mi><msqrt><mrow><msub><mi mathvariant="italic">&alpha;</mi><mrow><msup><mn mathvariant="italic">0</mn><mrow><mfrac><mrow><msub><mi mathvariant="italic">R</mi><mrow><mn mathvariant="italic">0</mn></mrow></msub></mrow><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></msup></mrow></msub></mrow></msqrt></math></p>
<p>It should be noted that this angular diameter <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">&beta;</mi></math> does</p>
<p>not decrease like <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mn mathvariant="normal">1</mn><mo mathvariant="normal">/</mo><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi></math>, but like <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mn mathvariant="normal">1</mn><mo mathvariant="normal">/</mo><mstyle displaystyle="true" mathvariant="normal"><mi>sqrt</mi></mstyle><mover accent="true"><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi><mo mathvariant="normal">,</mo></mrow><mo mathvariant="normal">&macr;</mo></mover></math> as the distance <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi></math> increases.</p>
<p>Of course, there is no hope of observing this phe- nomenon directly. First, we shall scarcely ever ap- proach closely enough to such a central line. Second, the angle <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">&beta;</mi></math> will defy the resolving power of our instruments. For, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mo mathvariant="normal">&infin;</mo><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">O</mi></mrow></msub></math> being of the order of magnitude of one second of arc, the angle <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi mathvariant="italic">R</mi><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">o</mi></mrow></msub><mo mathvariant="normal">/</mo><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi></math>, under which the deviating star <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math> is seen, is much smaller. Therefore, the light coming from the luminous circle can not be distinguished by an observer as geometrically different from that coming from the star <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math>, but simply <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">w</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">m</mi></math> manifest itself as increased apparent brightness of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math>. The same will happen, if the observer is situated at a small distance <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">x</mi></math> from the extended central hne <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mover accent="true"><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">A</mi><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi><mo mathvariant="normal">.</mo></mrow><mo mathvariant="normal">&macr;</mo></mover></math> But then the observer will see <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">A</mi></math> as two point-like light-souroes, which are deviated from the tme geo- metrical position of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">A</mi></math> by the angle <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">&beta;</mi></math>, approximately. The apparent brightness of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">A</mi></math> <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">w</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">m</mi></math> be increased by the lens-like <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">a</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">c</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">t</mi><mo mathvariant="normal">|</mo><mi mathvariant="normal">i</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">o</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">n</mi></math> of the gravitational field of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math> in the ratio <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">q</mi></math>. This <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">q</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">w</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">m</mi></math> be considerably larger than unity only if <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">x</mi></math> is so small that the observed positions of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">A</mi></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math> coincide, within the resolving power of our instruments. Simple geometric considerations lead to the expression</p>
<p class="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">q</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">=</mi><mfrac><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">l</mi></mrow><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">x</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo mathvariant="normal">&sdot;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn mathvariant="normal">1</mn><mi mathvariant="normal">+</mi><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi mathvariant="italic">x</mi><mrow><mn mathvariant="normal">2</mn></mrow></msup></mrow><mrow><mn mathvariant="normal">2</mn><msup><mi mathvariant="italic">l</mi><mrow><mn mathvariant="normal">2</mn></mrow></msup></mrow></mfrac></mrow><mrow><msqrt><mrow><mo mathvariant="normal">-</mo></mrow></msqrt></mrow></mfrac></math></p>
<p>where</p>
<p class="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">l</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">=</mi><mo mathvariant="normal">&Vee;</mo><mover accent="true"><mrow><msub><mi mathvariant="italic">&alpha;</mi><mrow><mn mathvariant="normal">0</mn></mrow></msub><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi><msub><mi mathvariant="italic">R</mi><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">o</mi></mrow></msub><mo mathvariant="normal">.</mo></mrow><mo mathvariant="normal">&macr;</mo></mover></math></p>
<p/>
<p>DECEMBER 4, 1936</p>
<p><i>SCIENCE</i></p>
<p>507</p>
<p>If we are interested mainly in the case <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">q</mi><mo mathvariant="normal">&GreaterGreater;</mo><mn mathvariant="normal">1</mn></math>, the for- mula</p>
<p class="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">l</mi></math></p>
<p class="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">q</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">=</mi><mo mathvariant="normal">&harr;</mo><mi mathvariant="italic">x</mi></math></p>
<p>is a sufficient approximation, since <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi mathvariant="italic">x</mi><mrow><mn mathvariant="normal">2</mn></mrow></msup></mrow><mrow><msup><mi mathvariant="italic">l</mi><mrow><mn mathvariant="normal">2</mn></mrow></msup></mrow></mfrac></math> may be neglected. Even in the most favorable cases the length <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">l</mi></math> is only a few light-seconds, and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">x</mi></math> must be small oompared with this, if an appreciable increase of the apparent brightness of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">A</mi></math> is to be produced by the lens-like action of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math>.</p>
<p>Therefore, there is no great chance of observing this phenomenon, even if dazzling by the light of the much nearer star <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math> is disregarded. This apparent amplification of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">q</mi></math> by the <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">l</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">e</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">n</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">s</mi><mo mathvariant="normal">-</mo><mn mathvariant="normal">1</mn><mo mathvariant="normal">|</mo><mi mathvariant="normal">i</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">k</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">e</mi></math> action of the star <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">B</mi></math> is a most curious effect, not so much for its beoom- ing infinite, with <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">x</mi></math> vanishing, but since with increasing distance <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi></math> of the observer not only does it not decrease, but even increases proportionaUy to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true" mathvariant="normal"><mi>sqrt</mi></mstyle><mover accent="true"><mrow><mi mathvariant="italic">D</mi><mo mathvariant="normal">.</mo></mrow><mo mathvariant="normal">&macr;</mo></mover></math></p>
<p>ALBERT EINSTEIN INSTITUm FOR ADVANCED STUDY,</p>
<p>PRINCETON, N. J.</p>
<p>PLEISTOCENE MAN IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA</p>
<p>ON the twenty-third of January of this year the Federal PWA Project, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">C</mi></math>-642, in an excavation project to build a storm drain from Los Angeles to the sea, unearthed what has proved to be a very interesting and doubtless significant discovery of early man in America. The chief engineer, Mr. J. J. Ryan, of the project, called the department of anthropology of the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, ask- ing that some one be sent out to the excavation to examine some bones thought to be human which had been unearthed on Rancho Cienga <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">O</mi></math>'Paso de la Tijera. Dr. Bowden, head of the department, and Dr. Lopatin, instructor in anthropology, went out and examined the discovery. <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">A</mi></math> skull and other human bones were recov- ered from a gray sandy clay resting immediately upon the. gravel some thirteen feet below the surface. Dr. Lopatin was left in charge for about ten days until all clues for possible cultural material had been examined. With the help of workers from the project an area of about 20 feet was carefully excavated under his direc- tion.</p>
<p>It is thought that these bones and skull belonged to the same human being, since they were found together and since the deposit was altogether undisturbed, but there was no trace of burial. The skull and bones had evidently been covered with sandy clay by river de- posits. The thirteen feet of clay was made up of five strata which were clearly distinguishable, since the storm drain runs in an <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">e</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">a</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">s</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">t</mi><mo mathvariant="normal">&rarr;</mo><mi mathvariant="normal">w</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">e</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">s</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">t</mi></math> direction along what is probably the old bed of the Los Angeles River, the trench thus providing a splendid cross-section of the</p>
<p>strata. <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">A</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">U</mi></math> the deposits on the walls of this trench appear to be fairly well bedded, and even to a casual observer they are very clear. The strata mn ahnost horizontaUy, thus making them easy to trace for hun- dreds of feet. Over these skeletal remains were four strata. Beginning at bottom the stratum was gravel, about four feet thick. Over that was a gray clay two feet thiok, which covered the human remains; then three feet of very dark clay. The fourth stratum from the bottom was gray clay, three to four feet thick, with boulders enmeshed. The top stratum was three feet of yellow clay; no loam soil on top.</p>
<p>For several weeks the site was watched by Dr. Lopa- tin and the workers, with the hope that other discov- eries of the kind would be made, and on the thirteenth of March about one thousand feet from the site where the human remains were found, several bones of a large animal were discovered. Four large teeth and some fragments of tusks came to light in close proxim- ity to the large bones. For identification, Dr. Thomas Clements, of the geology department of the University of Southem California, was called in consultation. He identified these bones as those of the mammoth (<i>Archi</i>- <i>diskodon</i> <i>imperator</i> Leidy <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mo mathvariant="normal">&rang;</mo></math>.</p>
<p>Due to the extended and thorough excavation of the government project a thorough examination of the stratification could be made, and it was found that the mammoth bones were in the same stratum as that of the human remains and were covered to a depth of about 12 feet. Likewise there were five strata in- volved. The bottom, where the mammoth bones were imbedded, was that of gravel with sand about two feet thick. The next was yellow clay one foot thick. Overlying this was about two feet of black clay; then, less than two feet of peat of good quality. The top stratum was black soil seven feet thick.</p>
<p>The fact that the human bones and those of the mammoth were found in the same geological stratum enabled us to conclude that both the man and mammoth had lived at approximately the same time, <i>i</i>.<i>e</i>., at the closing of the Pleistocene Epoch. Dr. Clements, after thorough examination of the complete stratification and environment, concluded that the geological stratifi- cation indicated Pleistocene strata.</p>
<p>All the bones, both of the human and the mammoth, were in a high state of complete fossilization and heav- ily coated with rock (sandstone and conglomerate). The human skull is badly damaged, lacking the entire facial part; only the posterior portion of the calvaria, or the brain box, is present. The skull is small in size. Judging from the state of the sutures of the cranium vault as well as from its small size and the smoothness of the external surface of the bones, the authors of this article came to the conclusion that the skull was that of a female <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi mathvariant="normal">w</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">e</mi><mi mathvariant="normal">U</mi></math> advanced in years. For the sake of</p>
<p/></body></html>
